3 ETFs For Nio Exposure
by
ETF Professor, Benzinga Staff Writer
 
October 15, 2020 11:15 AM | 2 min read







3 ETFs For Nio Exposure
FOR ONLY $0.99:  During this bear market you can follow full-time trader Chris Capre & get his options trades signals in real-time. Click Here to See His Next Trade!

There was a time when many investors in the U.S. thought electric vehicle stocks beyond Tesla Inc 
TSLA
+0.23%
+ Free Alerts
 just weren't worth the trouble. That conversation is being dramatically altered this year and China's Nio Ltd. 
NIO
+0.27%
+ Free Alerts
.

Once left for dead and viewed as a speculative, low-priced name, Nio is experiencing an epic renaissance in 2020. On Wednesday, shares of the electric vehicle maker surged 22.57% on volume that was more than triple the daily average after JPMorgan dubbed the name an attractive long-term play on China's booming EV market.

Of course, the rising tide provided Nio stock is of assistance to exchange-traded funds, which were once afterthoughts in relation to this name. Due to the automobile maker's improved financial position, credibility and share price appreciation, it's an increasingly prominent member in some ETFs.

This is how you can potentially earn extra income every single month...

Former leading hedge-fund trader Chris Capre is the real deal. With his simple options trading strategy, he's helping thousands of traders by sharing his trade signals in real-time. Click Here to get his Trades for only $0.99. ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ "My only regret is I wish I joined earlier..."




To be precise, 63 ETFs have Nio exposure, according to ETF Research Center (ETFRC) data. Here's a trio that represents the pick of that litter.

KraneShares MSCI China Environment ETF (KGRN)

It helps to be the “Nio ETF” and that's what the KraneShares MSCI China Environment Index ETF 
KGRN
 is. This unheralded fund allocates 8.71% of its weight to Nio, making the stock the ETF's largest holding and KGRN the biggest ETF holder of the stock. That's working in the fund's favor this year as KGRN is higher by 84.42%.


KGRN follows the MSCI China IMI Environment 10/40 Index, which is based on five themes: Alternative Energy, Sustainable Water, Green Building, Pollution Prevention and Energy Efficiency. Home to 44 stocks, KGRN also stands as one of the best ways to access Chinese EV makers via the ETF wrapper.

First Trust NASDAQ Clean Edge Green Energy Index Fund (QCLN)

The First Trust NASDAQ Clean Edge Green Energy Index Fund 
QCLN
-2.52%
+ Free Alerts
 is no Nio slouch. The Chinese company is the largest holding in the First Trust fund at 7.82%. That's 165 basis points more than QCLN devotes to Tesla. Those two names account for essentially all of QCLN's automobile exposure.

However, there's much more to the fund as it has 10 industry exposures, including a combined 39% weight to renewable energy and semiconductor stocks. Bottom line: Nio is a contributor, but QCLN's diversity across a hot industry is the primary reason the ETF more than doubled this year.

SPDR S&P Kensho Smart Mobility ETF (HAIL)

The SPDR S&P Kensho Smart Mobility ETF 
HAIL
 is also a player in the Nio ETF conversation as the stock is the fund's largest holding at 6.48%. Additionally, HAIL is well-positioned as an alternative to dedicated electric vehicle ETFs as related names, Nio included, combine for almost 21% of the fund's roster.

HAIL is the most diverse of the funds mentioned with exposure to 17 industries. It's up 36% this year.

If Your Trading Account Had Even $5,000 You Could Have Potentially Made $3,000 in the Past 14 Days...
Just imagine the results you would get if you had a full-time trader whispering what to buy and sell in your ear. Even a trading account with $5000 could have the potential to net upwards of $3000 in profit in the last 14 days if you had joined Chris Capre's Trade Alert Signals... Take a look some example trades below...


For a limited time only, we are giving access away for practically nothing... All it takes to get instant access to his next trades is $0.99. Click Here to Get Immediate Access to His Next Trade Signals

mailtimers.com

Time is running out... to get access to our #1 rated options trading alerts for only $0.99. Think of all the things you buy that are more than $0.99, perhaps an extra cup of coffee, or a subscription to a streaming service. But ask yourself, are those purchases really driving you to build wealth or distract you from your goals? If you are reading this then you are most likely interested in earning more to secure your financial future for your family. Click Here to Start getting Real-time Options Trade Alerts from Full-time Trader Chris Capre for Only $0.99!  ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐

