
	Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://www.ft.com/tour.
	https://www.ft.com/content/9c78c13e-a13c-11e8-85da-eeb7a9ce36e4

	China’s Nio woos potential investors with ambitious vision
Listing documents for its planned NYSE IPO reveal costly plans to forge relationships with clients

Despite the company's lossmaking run, Nio is banking on its appeal and position within China's burgeoning electric car market
China’s Nio woos potential investors with ambitious vision on twitter (opens in a new window)
China’s Nio woos potential investors with ambitious vision on facebook (opens in a new window)
China’s Nio woos potential investors with ambitious vision on linkedin (opens in a new window)
Save
current progress 100%
Peter Campbell, Motor Industry Correspondent AUGUST 17 2018
7
Print this page
Receive free California updates
We’ll send you a myFT Daily Digest email rounding up the latest California news every morning.


In the great Chinese electric car race, Nio is gambling on using the stock market to help it pull away from the pack.

Nio, a start-up backed by Chinese internet giants Tencent and Baidu, began producing its own vehicles in June, and is now seeking $1.8bn in an initial public offering on the New York Stock Exchange that will help it scale up and develop a suite of new battery vehicles.

It is banking on a surge in electric car sales in China, the price difference between its vehicles and those of its international competitors, its unique customer app and its emphasis on user experience to clean up in a ferociously competitive industry.

Nio is the first in a potential wave of Chinese-based electric-vehicle upstarts to tap the public markets, and its filing comes just as well-established US rival Tesla seeks to leave the glare of the stock market to fuel its own growth.

Financial details in the document revealed revenues of just $7m for the first half — largely because it only began deliveries on June 28 — and a combined loss of $1.6bn over the past three years.

But the promise to its potential investors in its American depositary shares — who will join early backers such as Tencent, Baidu and Sequoia Capital — is to revolutionise the experience of owning a car.


“We believe that improved smart electric car technologies, coupled with better experience of car ownership, will drive increased appreciation and adoption of smart electric cars, leading to the fulfilment of our vision of blue skies and a more sustainable future for our planet,” wrote founder and chief executive William Li in a letter to potential investors at the front of the 314-page document.

The group is focusing on the interior of the cars, an area it believes it can specialise in. It hopes to use the background of its founders in ecommerce to design pleasant user interfaces that will help it take some of the $2.6bn market for in-car services it forecasts for connected and, eventually, autonomous vehicles.

To help it achieve its goal, Nio has outsourced the things it cannot do — such as making the cars — to Chinese manufacturer JAC, and focused its efforts on its apps, stores and designing the cars.


One of the seven Nio Houses, which reflect the company's innovative approach to dealerships
Indications exist that the scope of its brand appeal goes beyond potential car buyers. While it has only received 17,000 orders for its first car, some 490,000 people have downloaded its social network app, and posted more than a quarter of a million photos.

It has opened seven Nio Houses — the company’s innovative take on dealerships that feature charge points, but also working spaces, lecture theatres, kitchens and child care. It plans to open five more this year, also in China, with the eventual aim that its customers will always have access to a Nio House in major world cities.

Its attempt to strike up a “relationship” with consumers inevitably pushes Nio up against other groups competing to interact directly with consumers, from white goods retailers to social media apps.


The competition in electric vehicles is also becoming increasingly fierce. A deluge of electric cars is coming to market, both from established international manufacturers, and from the roughly 300 start-ups in China hoping to ride the rising demand for battery cars.

More than 200,000 public chargers are in China, of which more than half are high-speed superchargers that can replenish the majority of a battery in under an hour. But Nio is also planning to offer its own recharging services. As well as home charging for those with garages, it plans to offer mobile charging vans, the ability to swap batteries quickly, and even a concierge service that tows the cars away to charge and return them.

Its aim is that customers will “enjoy a level of convenience similar to or better than fuel charging”. But this emphasis on customer service threatens to drain the business’s resources.

For Nio, raising $1.8bn is more than about expanding — it is about surviving. According to its IPO documents, the company had $668m of cash at the end of June, and in the first half of the year had burnt through $461m of cash. It also warned that costs “will increase significantly in the future” — it plans to spend $600m next year, and $1.8bn over the next three years.


The Nio EP9 set a world record last year on the Nürburgring race circuit in Germany
The company is also obliged to compensate JAC, its manufacturing partner, for any losses it incurs in the first 36 months of production at the new factory. The IPO filing reveals it paid JAC Rmb100m ($14.5m) to compensate for losses in the last three months, including another Rmb34.9m for expected losses in the coming quarter. A second plant is “under construction by certain Shanghai government entities” and will be ready in 2020.

It warns its manufacturing ability is “unproven and still evolving”, and that many of the 1,700 parts that go into the car from 160 suppliers are from a single source, which means the company is more exposed if the supplier encounters a problem.

It has experienced delays at the newly built 120,000-a-year capacity plant that led to the first vehicles being delivered on June 28 — just two days before Nio closed the books on a six months period that saw it lose $500m and sell just 400 cars. Some customers have already cancelled orders, it said.

Theoretically the best time for Nio to go public is after it has delivered at least a thousand vehicles, as the market would then have enough confidence to support a valuation like this, according to analysts.


At this point in time, when the company has only delivered fewer than 500 vehicles according to company filing, Nio will very likely be questioned by the market for the proposed valuation. “Nio is probably making too big a step in this move,” said Robin Zhu, Hong Kong-based analyst at Bernstein, “especially under the current circumstances when the overall market sentiment has been overall negative.”

The other area in which Nio hopes to move ahead from competitors is the nascent area of autonomous technology. Nio is working on its own self-driving systems, with 737 registered patents, and 1,995 pending in HK, China, US and Europe. In April, it was in the first batch of companies winning permission to test autonomous vehicles in Beijing.

Unlike many of its international rivals that are developing self-driving cars to sell into taxi services, or operate their own ride-hailing offers, the group believes autonomous driving will be a huge boost for car sales, cutting against conventional industry wisdom that private car sales will be partly replaced by robotaxis over time in dense cities.

Recommended

LexIPOs
Nio/Tesla: Mr Blue Sky Premium content

According to its IPO filing, the company believes that self-driving cars will “not only relieve drivers from the monotony of their daily commutes, but will also make cars safer and more environmentally friendly and transform the car into a mobile living space, ultimately becoming a broader part of a user’s lifestyle”.

Nio calls itself a “global start-up”, with offices in Britain, Germany, California and China. Yet one area of the company’s hefty ambitions that appear to have been scaled back in its filing are its international aspirations. When interviewed by the Financial Times last year, president and co-founder Lihong Qin said the business aimed to be “a real global company”, with plans to enter the US market by 2020. Yet the IPO document states that the business “only expects to sell our vehicles in China in the near future”.

Additional reporting by Sherry Fei Ju in Hong Kong


William Li, founder and chief executive of Nio
William Li — serial entrepreneur
William Li is a serial entrepreneur who has listed three companies and founded dozens more.

Now 44, he founded his first company while studying sociology with law at Peking University 20 years ago using funds from numerous computer programming side-jobs.

Before Nio, which receives several types of Chinese government subsidies, he had never taken a bank loan for one of his ventures.

His largest company before Nio was Bitauto, China’s first online car sales channel, which he founded in 2000 and floated on Nasdaq in 2010.

After a sense of guilt at fuelling even higher car sales in China’s heavily-polluted cities, he began working on an electric vehicle company.

NextEV, which became Nio, launched in 2014.

A year later, it had won the first ever Formula E electric racing series, and in 2016 produced the EP9 hypercar that set a lap record at Germany’s revered Nürburgring.

The company has more than 6,000 staff across the world.

In December, the company unveiled its first consumer product, a large premium family sport utility vehicle.

“William Li has a very acute sense of when to seek fundraising and when to tap into the public market,” said a source familiar with Nio’s chairman, adding that eight years ago Mr Li had pushed his previous company, Bitauto, an internet content and marketing provider, to IPO in New York despite not being fully ready, successfully crushing competitors.

The company’s name translates as “blue sky coming”, a reference to Mr Li’s vision of clearing the smog from the country’s major cities.
