
	Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of FT.com T&Cs and Copyright Policy. Email licensing@ft.com to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be found at https://www.ft.com/tour.
	https://www.ft.com/content/870b5c84-2afd-11ea-bc77-65e4aa615551

	Electric car maker Nio stems losses but still faces cash crunch
Softening Chinese market and milestones for rival Tesla pose challenges for group

Nio expects 8,000 vehicles to be delivered in the fourth quarter © Bloomberg
Electric car maker Nio stems losses but still faces cash crunch on twitter (opens in a new window)
Electric car maker Nio stems losses but still faces cash crunch on facebook (opens in a new window)
Electric car maker Nio stems losses but still faces cash crunch on linkedin (opens in a new window)
Save
current progress 100%
Christian Shepherd in Beijing DECEMBER 30 2019
4
Print this page
Receive free Electric vehicles updates
We’ll send you a myFT Daily Digest email rounding up the latest Electric vehicles news every morning.


Nio, the Chinese electric car maker, has reined in losses but still faces a potentially crippling cash crunch, as the world’s largest fuel-replacement vehicle market struggles with a deepening downturn.

Nio’s extensive cost-cutting measures, including staff lay-offs, a sell-off of key businesses and reduction of marketing, pared net losses to Rmb2,521.7m ($352.8m) for the third quarter, a drop of 23 per cent compared with the second quarter. 

William Li, chief executive, said the company had faced a soft market over the quarter due to the reduction of electric vehicles subsidies in China. The company expects 8,000 vehicles to be delivered in the fourth quarter, bringing total aggregate deliveries in 2019 to more than 20,300. 

Nio became the forerunner of a handful of Chinese electric vehicle start-ups poised to take on Tesla in September 2018 when it listed in New York and released an electric sport utility vehicle that made rare inroads into the country’s premium passenger vehicles segment. 

But the company has since struggled to both stem cash outflow and raise new capital, sparking a loss of analyst confidence in the viability of the business. The shares are down 25 per cent from their peak in March. 

On top of high overheads from its manufacturing partnership with fellow Chinese carmaker JAC Motor, Nio also took a costly bells and whistles approach to customer care, including a cheap battery swap service and membership for spacious clubhouse-cum-showrooms in prime locations across China. 

Recommended

Tesla Inc
Tesla lines up $1.6bn in financing for its Shanghai Gigafactory

Nio’s chief financial officer Louis Hsieh resigned from the company in October during a slew of departures, while a battery recall over the summer deepened concerns over the company’s ability to manage liquidity. In September, the company was forced to raise $200m from Mr Li and Tencent, a leading shareholder.

In recent months the company has made some progress towards a turnround, selling 4,799 cars for the quarter — up about 25 per cent from 3,553 in the second quarter — spurred by sales of a smaller crossover SUV model, the ES6, as well as in November announcing a partnership to work on self-driving technologies with Intel’s Mobileye. 

At Nio’s yearly party for its users in Shenzhen on Saturday, it formally launched its third model — the EC6, a crossover SUV coupe — in a move the company said would help cut costs by creating economies of scale. 

Adding to pressure on Nio is a series of recent milestones for Tesla in China, culminating in the American manufacturer delivering to employees on Monday the first batch of 15 Model 3 sedans made in its $2bn Shanghai plant. 

Last week, Tesla said it had secured Rmb11.25bn ($1.6bn) in new financing from a consortium of state-backed Chinese lenders. 
