Nio stock sinks, as investors spooked by earnings miss, delivery slowdown
Published: March 6, 2019 at 6:55 a.m. ET
By Claudia Assis
3
Deliveries of Nio’s flagship SUV slumped in January and February

A customer looks inside a Nio ES8 in Shanghai. BLOOMBERG NEWS/LANDOV
Email icon
Facebook icon
Twitter icon
Linkedin icon
Flipboard icon
Print icon
Resize icon
Referenced Symbols

NIO
-4.85% 
SPX
0.08% 
Nio Inc.’s American depositary shares tanked in the extended session Tuesday after the Shanghai-based electric-car maker reported a wider-than-expected quarterly loss, highlighted a delivery slowdown this year and raised more concerns about China’s economy.

Nio NIO, -4.85%  said it lost 3.5 billion renminbi ($511.5 million) in the fourth quarter, or 49 cents a share. Revenue reached 3.4 billion renminbi ($499.7 million) in the quarter, compared with 1.5 billion renminbi in the third quarter. Nio did not provide year-ago numbers.

Analysts polled by FactSet expected a quarterly loss of 32 cents a share on sales of $493 million.

Related:Tesla stock slides to 4-month low as analysts question recent decisions, fret about cash burn

Fourth-quarter deliveries of Nio’s ES8, an SUV launched last year in the Chinese market, reached 7,980 vehicles, the company said.

See also:Citron’s Andrew Left sells out of China’s Tesla rival Nio

NOW PLAYING: 
Shifting Away From Growth



Visit our Video Center
Deliveries of the ES8 in January and February were 1,805 and 811 vehicles, respectively, reflecting “a greater-than-anticipated slowdown in monthly deliveries,” Nio said.

The company pinned the slowdown on accelerated deliveries at the end of 2018 ahead of electric-vehicle-subsidy cuts in China this year, seasonal slowdowns around the Jan. 1 and Lunar New Year holidays, and “the current slowdown of macro-economic conditions in China, particularly in the automotive sector,” it said.

Read more:Nio CEO touts its electric cars as ‘ticket to a new lifestyle’

Nio ADRs fell about 11% in after-hours trading and were down 14.4% in premarket trade Wednesday.

Retire Early. Build Wealth. Feel Secure.
Whatever your dreams of the future might be, our FREE retirement planner can help. Build your financial plan: Set your goals, take control, make better decisions and stay on track.
TRY OUR PLANNER
MarketWatch on Multiple devices
The ADRs debuted on the New York Stock Exchange in September and a couple of months later the company won a nod from Citron Research’s Andrew Left, who praised its management and marketing strategies, including the creation of “Nio Houses” as places not only for car sales but also as club-style spaces where customers can socialize.

Nio said in December that its ES6, a compact, five-seater SUV, is available to pre-order, with the first deliveries slated for June.

Nio’s ADRs have gained 60% this year, compared with gains around 2.5% for the S&P 500 index SPX, 0.08%  .