Tesla rival Nio soars 75% in its second day on the NYSE
 Email Share Share Tweet
 Print Order Reprints
Ted Li, the first Nio employee, joined by New York Stock Exchange President Stacey Cunningham, rings the opening bell at the NYSE on Sept. 12, 2018. Nio raised about $1 billion in its Wall Street debut.
Enlarge
Ted Li, the first Nio employee, joined by New York Stock Exchange President Stacey Cunningham, rings the opening bell at the NYSE on Sept. 12, 2018. Nio raised about $1 billion in its Wall Street debut.
COURTNEY CROW | NYSE

IN THIS ARTICLE
Automotive
Topic
Tesla
Company
Stacey Cunningham
Person
Padmasree Warrior
Person
Ted Li
Person

By Luke Stangel  –  Contributing writer
Sep 14, 2018 Updated Sep 14, 2018, 6:40am PDT
Chinese electric carmaker Nio may have limped out of the gate in its IPO, but the company found its footing on its second day of trading, leaping 75 percent by the closing bell.

Shares gained another 10 percent overnight, and will likely open around $13 today — more than double its IPO price.

CREATE YOUR FREE ACCOUNT
BECOME A MEMBER

Join the Silicon Valley Business Journal to unlock even more insights!


Nio employs more than 500 people at its U.S. headquarters in North San Jose, whose operations are led by former Cisco executive Padmasree Warrior. The company launched in 2014, and has grown rapidly on its home turf, producing its first car this year, an electric SUV that starts at $65,000 — roughly half the price of a Tesla Inc. Model X in China.

Inside Nio's U.S. HQ in San Jose

The Nio ES8, in front the company's Silicon Valley innovation center at 3200 N 1st St in North San Jose.
VIEW SLIDESHOW
9 photos






The Nio ES8, in front the company's Silicon Valley innovation center at 3200 N 1st St in North San Jose.
Like Tesla, Nio burns spectacular amounts of cash. In the first six months of 2018, the company pulled in $7 million in sales, but ended up losing $502.6 million in the process — roughly $116,000 in losses per hour.

As of late July, Nio had delivered a total of 481 cars to customers, with another 17,000 customers waiting on its preorder list.

As it geared up for its initial public offering on the New York Stock Exchange, Nio said it hoped to sell 160 million shares to underwriters, raising $1.8 billion in the process. On Wednesday, the company’s underwriters bought the stock at the bottom of Nio’s range, for $6.26 per share, or roughly $1 billion.

The New York Stock Exchange welcomes executives NIO Inc. (NYSE: NIO), in celebration of their IPO. Ted LI, first NIO employee and owner of ES8 No.0001, joined by NYSE President Stacey Cunningham, rings the NYSE Opening Bell®.
Enlarge
The New York Stock Exchange welcomes executives NIO Inc. (NYSE: NIO), in celebration of their IPO. Ted LI, first NIO employee and owner of ES8 No.0001, joined by NYSE President Stacey Cunningham, rings the NYSE Opening Bell®.
PHOTO COURTESY OF COURTNEY CROW

Nio’s first day of trading was similarly underwhelming, with the stock gaining just 5 percent to close at $6.60 per share. But investors piled into the stock on Thursday, at one point driving shares up as high as $12.69, 92 percent higher than the previous day’s close. Shares ended the day at $11.60.

It remains unclear why Nio shares leapt on their second day, and continued to gain overnight.



RECOMMENDED

HEALTH CARE
Coral Gables Hospital CEO Jimenez killed

GOVERNMENT & REGULATIONS
Gov. Ron DeSantis responds to Disney CEO Bob Iger about Florida feud

RETAILING
Mark Cuban on why 'Shark Tank' deal with North Carolina startup The Woobles didn't close   INNO



Analysts at Bernstein issued a negative outlook on the stock Thursday, saying they believe the company should be trading at $4.20 per share, MarketWatch reports.

Bernstein analysts warned that Nio’s costs were “too high and its price points too low,” likely setting itself up for multiple consecutive years of losses. For the time being, Nio plans to just sell cars in China. China remains Tesla’s second-largest market, behind the U.S.

The List